[IMP] accounting: SEPA (#2849)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/payables/pay/sepa.rst

- Isle of Man.

When paying a bill in Odoo, you can select SEPA mandates as a payment option. At the end of the day,
the manager can generate the SEPA file containing all bank wire transfers and send it to the bank.

By default, the file follows the SEPA Credit Transfer **'pain.001.001.03'** specifications. This is
a well-defined standard among banks. However, according to the country set on your company, another
format can be used : **'pain.001.001.03.ch.02'** for Switzerland and **'pain.001.003.03'** for
Germany.

Once the payments are processed by your bank, you can directly import the account statement in
Odoo. The bank reconciliation process will seamlessly match the SEPA orders you sent to your bank
with actual bank statements.

Configuration
=============

Activate the SEPA Credit Transfer (SCT)
---------------------------------------

To pay suppliers with SEPA, you must activate the **SEPA Credit Transfer** setting.
To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Vendor Payments -->
SEPA Credit Transfer (SCT)`. By activating the setting and filling in your company data, you will be
able to add the SCT option when paying your vendor.

> Activate the SEPA Direct Debit (SDD)

Author: Yes, for sure, the only reason why I left it here, it's because this page is a "basic" setting about sepa and the other one is more about the payments, specifically batch payments. 
So I feel like since we introduce sepa, we should mention here the basic activation of the feature.

> Activate the SEPA Direct Debit (SDD)

Author: I might see then if I'll add the batch payments page to this one, this could be great even if it'd be kind of long

Pay with SEPA
=============

SEPA, the Single Euro Payments Area, is a payment-integration initiative of the European union for

> simplification of bank transfers denominated in EURO. SEPA allows you to send payment orders to your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simplify bank transfers denominated in EURO. SEPA allows you to send payment orders to your
```

bank to automate bank wire transfer.

SEPA is supported by the banks of the 28 EU member states as well as Iceland, Norway, Switzerland,

> Andorra, Monaco and San Marino.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Germany.

Once the payments are processed by your bank, you can directly import the account statement in
Odoo. The bank reconciliation process will seamlessly match the SEPA orders you sent to your bank
with actual bank statements.

Configuration
=============

Activate the SEPA Credit Transfer (SCT)
---------------------------------------

To pay suppliers with SEPA, you must activate the **SEPA Credit Transfer** setting.
To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Vendor Payments -->
SEPA Credit Transfer (SCT)`. By activating the setting and filling in with your company data, you
will be able to add the SCT option when paying your vendor.

Activate the SEPA Direct Debit (SDD)
-------------------------------------
To get paid with SEPA, you must activate the **SEPA Direct Debit** setting. To do so, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Customer Payments -->
SEPA Direct Debit (SDD)`.

.. note::

   According to your country and the chart of account you use, the **SEPA Direct Debit** and
   **SEPA Credit Transfer** modules may be installed by default. If not, they need to be installed

>    :doc:'<../../../../app_modules>'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :doc:'<../../../../app_modules>'
```
It doesn't work, I think you need the full path

Activate SEPA payment methods on banks
--------------------------------------

In order to allow payments by SEPA, you must activate the payment method on related bank journals.

> From the accounting dashboard, click on the dropdown menu (⋮) on your bank journal and go on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the accounting dashboard, click on the drop-down menu (⋮) on your bank journal and go to
```

> :guilabel: Configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Configuration`.
```
You need ` otherwise it doesn't work

> To activate SEPA, click the **Incoming payments** tab for Incoming Payments and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To activate SEPA, click the **Incoming payments** tab for incoming payments and
```

> **Outgoing Payments** tab for Outgoing Payments. You can add, if not already present, SEPA Direct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Outgoing Payments** tab for outgoing payments. You can add, if not already present, SEPA Direct
```

> Debit and SEPA Credit Transfer as a Payment Method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debit and SEPA Credit Transfer as a payment method.
```

> Make sure to specify the IBAN account number (domestic account number won't work with SEPA) and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to specify the IBAN account number (domestic account number do not work with SEPA) and the
```
contractions (will not = won't) are considered informal in written English

BIC (bank identifier code) in the **Journal Entries** tab.

Pay with SEPA
=============

Register your payments
----------------------

You can register both customers payments and vendor payments paid with SEPA. To do so, use the top
menu :menuselection:`Purchases --> Payments`. Register your payment and select a payment method by
Sepa Direct Debit for customers and Sepa Credit Transfer for vendors.

> If it's the first time you pay this vendor, you will have to fill in the Recipient Bank Account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it is the first time you pay a vendor with SEPA, you will have to fill in the :guilabel:`Recipient Bank Account`
```
I didn't check but I guess this is a field, and therefore guilabels required

> field with, at least, the bank name, IBAN and BIC (Bank Identifier Code). Odoo will automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
field with the bank name, IBAN, and BIC (Bank Identifier Code). Odoo will automatically
```

verify the IBAN format.

For future payments to this vendor, Odoo will propose you automatically the bank accounts but you
will be able to select another one or create a new one.

> If you pay a specific supplier bill, put the reference of the bill in the **memo** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you pay a specific supplier bill, put the reference of the bill in the :guilabel:`memo` field.
```
Visual element

Once your payment is registered, don't forget to confirm it. You can also pay vendor bills from the

> bill directly using the Register Payment button on top of a vendor bill. The form is the same,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bill directly using the :guilabel:`Register Payment` button at the top of a vendor bill. The form is the same,
```

but the payment is directly linked to the bill and will be automatically reconciled to it.

Generate SEPA files
-------------------

> Once you have some payments with sepa you can access them through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have SEPA payments, you can access them through
```

By default, the file follows the SEPA Credit Transfer **'pain.001.001.03'** specifications. This is
a well-defined standard among banks. However, for Swiss and German companies, other formats are used
**'pain.001.001.03.ch.02'** for Switzerland and **'pain.001.003.03'** for Germany.

Once the payments are processed by your bank, you can directly import the account statement in
Odoo. The bank reconciliation process will seamlessly match the SEPA orders you sent to your bank
with actual bank statements.

Configuration
=============

Activate the SEPA Credit Transfer (SCT)
---------------------------------------

To pay suppliers with SEPA, you must activate the **SEPA Credit Transfer** setting.
To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings -->
Vendor Payments: --> SEPA Credit Transfer (SCT)`. By activating the setting and filling in with your
company data, you will be able to add the SCT option when paying your vendor.

.. note::

   According to the localization package installed, the **SEPA Direct Debit** and
   **SEPA Credit Transfer** modules may be installed by default. If not, they need to be installed

>    :doc:`/applications/general/apps_modules`

Reviewer 2: It's weird to append the title of a page to a sentence.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15896813/200594599-db9d1d62-d7eb-436b-a4cd-80a04847cd74.png)
Also, the trailing dot is missing.

Author: I changed the sentence so it looks less weird; I'm not sure what you mean by the missing trailing dot.

Activate SEPA payment methods on banks
--------------------------------------

From the accounting dashboard, click on the drop-down menu (:guilabel:`⋮`) on your bank journal and
go to :guilabel:`Configuration`.

> To activate SEPA, click the :guilabel:`Outgoing Payments` tab for outgoing payments. You can add, if

Reviewer 2: Don't start a new line in RST if it doesn't start a new line in HTML.

not already present, SEPA Credit Transfer as a payment method.

Make sure to specify the IBAN account number (domestic account number do not work with SEPA) and the
BIC (bank identifier code) in the :guilabel:`Journal Entries` tab.

Pay with SEPA
=============

> Register payments

Reviewer 2: Is this section useful?

Author: I reduced by erasing the customer payment since we explain the same thing in the SEPA batch payment page

Reviewer 2: I didn't mean that this section is useless, but that having a single sub-section under "Pay with SEPA" is probably unwanted. If it's ok like this, just say so ;)

remains possible to select a new one.

The bank refuses my SEPA file
-----------------------------
If you pay a specific supplier bill, put the reference of the bill in the :guilabel:`Memo` field.

Ask your bank if they support the **SEPA Credit Transfer specification**
(the SEPA pain version depends on the country set on your company). If
they don't, or cannot provide relevant information, please forward the
error message to your Odoo partner.
Once your payment is registered, do not forget to confirm it. You can also pay vendor bills from the
bill directly using the :guilabel:`Register Payment` button at the top of a vendor bill.
The form is the same, but the payment is directly linked to the bill and will be automatically
reconciled with it.

There is no Bank Identifier Code recorded for bank account ...
--------------------------------------------------------------

In order to send a SEPA payment, the recipient must be identified by a
valid IBAN and BIC. If this message appear, you probably encoded an IBAN
account for the partner you are paying but forgot to fill in the BIC
field.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`check`
   - :doc:`../../bank/setup/bank_accounts`

>    - :doc:`../../bank/reconciliation/use_cases`

Reviewer 2: Trailing blank lines.
